but if I were you I wouldn't just
understand them I would get so good at
them that solving a simple binary search
or a sliding window problem feels as
easy as writing a for Loop have you guys
gotten to the point where you can
Implement some of the more like trivial
algorithms that quickly because once you
do it kind of opens up your mind to like
a level of like Enlightenment when
you're first learning how to code
writing out for loops and things like
that takes like cognitive energy it's
not second nature like writing out
variable names especially when you're
learning a new language for the first
time it it's like there's friction in
just like getting your thoughts into
code but when you get to the next level
like you can write out binary search or
a basic sliding window or even a depth
first search algorithm very very quickly
that takes zero effort and that's when
you can kind of start focusing on the
more complicated stuff you can focus on
like how are you branching your
recursion how are you creating the
branch how like what is the condition
for shrinking the the sliding window and
increasing the sliding window and things
like that and people skip a step people
don't get good at the basics they just
try to go to the harder stuff like why
not just solve a really really simple
binary search or sliding window problem
five times why not do it because it's
not going to take you very long if you
solve it the first time in 15 20 minutes
solve it again the next day it'll
probably take you 10 minutes solve it
again the next day it'll probably take
you like 5 minutes and you'll get so
good you'll be able to solve it in like
2 minutes and you're probably thinking
well I don't want to memorize the
solution I don't want to be that type of
person where I just memorize it there's
an element of memorization in every type
of learning but of course you should be
able to understand every single line of
code that's written here in this binary
search and it's not hard to do yeah it's
it's not about like memorizing it like
your brain works like that like your
brain will like your brain memorizes the
location of like the keys on your
keyboard that's why you're able to type
it out quickly you don't really have to
think about where's like the a key and
and that's kind of what you want to get
to when you're solving basic leak code
problems and when you can do that then
that's when you get to like the next
layer of Enlightenment when it comes to
lead code that's when you don't even
think about the code anymore you're just
focusing on the problem once you know
how to solve a problem the code just
writes itself and that's what you want
to get to like you should be able to
tell me what would go wrong if I removed
any of these lines of code without can
you guys tell me what's going to go
wrong if we don't check if the row or
column is out of bounds yeah out of
bounds eror right that's the type of
thing that I do when I was interviewing
people you can write out the code cool
you write be you can write a DFS
algorithm good for you but if you can't
tell me what's going to go wrong if I
took these two lines of code out then
you really don't understand it and I
think that's fair it's not like I'm
picking on people if I'm asking you if
you remove these two lines of code why
would the code no longer work because
you're going to go out of bounds it's
pretty simple isn't it and that's what a
lot of people miss a lot of people are
out here memorizing code and they can't
even answer basic questions like that